# Important Question And Answers for Node.js 

### Why we use 'end()' in http Server ?

-  Calling the writable.end() method signals that no more data will be written to the Writable. The optional chunk and encoding arguments allow one final additional chunk of data to be written immediately before closing the stream.

- Calling the write method after calling end will raise an error.

______________________________________________________________________________________


### how http server is being Created ?

- function createServer<typeof http.IncomingMessage, typeof http.ServerResponse>(requestListener?: http.RequestListener<typeof http.IncomingMessage, typeof http.ServerResponse> | undefined): http.Server<...> (+1 overload)
Returns a new instance of Server.

- The requestListener is a function which is automatically added to the 'request' event.

______________________________________________________________________________________

### What is Pipe in Node.js

- Piping in Node.js is a method used to connect a readable stream to a writable stream, allowing data to flow automatically from the source to the destination. The pipe() method is used to achieve this, making it easy to handle data streaming operations with minimal code.

- when a request is made to the server, it reads data from source.txt and pipes it directly to the response object, which is a writable stream.

______________________________________________________________________________________


# Express.js Learning

### Steps

- first steps to install the express package cmd `npm i express` and nodemon package cmd `npm i nodemon`

### What is next() in express.js
- In Express.js, next() is a function that is passed as the third argument to middleware functions. It is used to pass control to the next middleware function in the stack. 

- next() essentially says "I'm done with my part, let the next middleware function handle the request."


____

### What are the MiddleWares in Express.js ?
- In Express.js, Middleware functions are functions that have access to the request object (req), the response object (res), and the next function in the application's request-response cycle. These functions are executed sequentially and can perform various tasks before the final route handler is invoked. 

____

# MongoDB learning

## What is MongoDB ?
- NO-SQL/Non Relational Database.
- High Performance.
- Highly Scalable.
- map/reducer Aggragations.
- Auto Sharding.


## Why

- Flexible data requirement.
- Need high availability.
- Need distribution data access.
- Read speed matter more than write speed.


# When to not 

- Write is important that read.
- Data is fully relational.
- Everything is connection to every other thing.
- Transitional support is high priority.
- eg:- banking, payments, IOT etc.


## Documents

- Smallest Record.

- Represrntd ONE data.

- A documents is nothing but a json object.

- Every doc as a unique "ID":_id:objectID();

        Example:
            {
                _id:ObjectId:("e78fab3db3764fb8"), // generated by mongos...
                author:"John",
                data:"Long text",
                tag:["mongo","js"] ,
                comments:[
                    {
                        authore:"Jack",
                        date:"Sun 5th July 2012",
                        text:"Good blog"
                    }
                ]
            }


## Collections

- Place where multiple similar documents are stored.
- In above example, multiple such documents will be stored in  a collection.
- collection has name eg:"Post"
- use this name to finde docs:'Post.find({authore :"Jack"})    etc...


## Database

- multiple such collection are stored in a place called DB.
- You can have any number of database.
- A database groups created to ristrict access levels, create replicas, sharding etc

here are some command as follow below in this is

1. **_show dbs_** -> _**`means how many db are present in mongoDB.`**_

1. **_use "db_name"_** -> _**`to switch the dataBase init which we want to switch the database.`**_

1. **_show collections_** -> _**`to show the collectioons are present in db.`**_

1. **_db."collection_name".find()_** -> _**`to finde all the data are present in the collection. `**_

1. **_db.createCollection("collection-name")_** -> _**`this is command will crate the collection.`**_

1. **_db."collection-name".insertOne({})_** -> _**`basically here we are inerting the value or data from collections.`**_

1. **_use "db-name"_** -> _**`it will create the dataBase from mongoDB.`**_

1. **_db.collection-name.deleteOne({})_** -> _**`It will delete just one document from the mongoDB database`**_

1. **_db.collection-name.deleteMany({})_** -> _**`It will delete just multiple same data found as  document from the mongoDB database`**_

        Example:-

        db.users.deleteMany({ country: "India" })

        Note:- if India is written in multiple documents so we can use the deleteMany command for deleting the data from the mongoDB database

1. **_db.collection-name.updateOne({})_** -> _**`It will update just one data into the document of the mongoDB database`**_

        Example :

         db.users.updateOne(
            {name:"uzi tenzen"} , {$set:{age:30}
        })

        output: 
         {
         _id: ObjectId('685b9ad99112d509b4748a5f'),
         name: 'uzi tenzen',
         rank: 'hashira 2',
         wifes: 'didnt not know',
         age: 30
         },

1. **_db.collection-name.UpdateMany({})_** -> _**`It will delete just multiple same data found as  document from the mongoDB database using $set property`**_

        Example :-

         db.users.updateMany(
            {wifes:'dont'}, {$set: {active:true}
        })

        Note: {wifes:'dont'} = From this , it will target the data of the document

        {$set: {active:true}} = This is the updated data in every document which will selected in wifes using the '$set' property



mongodb+srv://rohangawade2604:rohangawade@cluster0.ryicjpe.mongodb.net/?retryWrites=true&w=majority&appName=Cluster0